# How to refer to conditionally compiled items

The preprocessor has some support for generating links to items that are platform- or
feature-specific. You can configure the [features](#specifying-features) to enable when
running `cargo doc`, and build docs for multiple [targets](#specifying-targets) at once.
For more complex scenarios, you can use [multi-stage builds](#multi-stage-builds) to
resolve all links over multiple passes.

## The problem

As mentioned in [Naming items](../naming-items.md#under-the-hood), the preprocessor
resolves links by utilizing compiler artifacts generated by `cargo doc` and `rustdoc`,
where:

> Rustdoc treats your crate the same way the compiler does. Only things from the host
> target are available (or from the given `--target` if present), and everything else is
> “filtered out” from the crate.[^rustdoc-conditional]

Which means that the preprocessor also cannot automatically "see" conditionally-compiled
items without extra configuration. The officially-recommended method is to [add
`#[cfg(doc)]`][cfg-doc] to any such items to enable them during `rustdoc`.

Unfortunately, due to the way the preprocessor works, this is unsupported. This also
will not help if you are trying to mention items from dependencies that are
conditionally-compiled.

In lieu of `#[cfg(doc)]`, the preprocessor offer several options to control the
compilation process.

## Specifying features

Use `build.features` to enable additional features. This option corresponds to the
[`--feature` option in `cargo doc`][`--features`].

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.features = ["fancy", "clap/unstable-doc"]
# cargo doc --features fancy --features clap/unstable-doc
```

This example enables the `fancy` feature for your local package and the `unstable-doc`
feature of the `clap` package[^cargo-dep-feature].

You can also use `build.all-features` and `build.no-default-features`, which correspond
to the [`--all-features`] and [`--no-default-features`] options, respectively.

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.all-features = true
```

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.no-default-features = true
```

## Specifying targets

Use `build.targets` to enable additional targets. This option corresponds to the
[`--target` option in `cargo doc`][`--target`].

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.targets = ["aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu"]
# cargo doc --target aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

Specifying multiple targets is supported, which allows you to refer to items enabled by
any of them:

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.targets = ["x86_64-pc-windows-msvc", "aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu"]
```

In this case, the preprocessor will run
`cargo doc --target x86_64-pc-windows-msvc --target aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu` (which
builds documentation for both targets at the same time).

### Caveat: target-aware links

> [!IMPORTANT]

When `targets` are specified, the preprocessor will _always_ include the target triples
in links that point to docs.rs, even for items that aren't actually platform-specific.
That is, a link like <br>
<a href="https://docs.rs/url/2.5.8/url/index.html"><code>https://docs.rs/url/2.5.8/url/index.html</code></a>
becomes <br>
<a href="https://docs.rs/url/2.5.8/x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/url/index.html"><code>https://docs.rs/url/2.5.8<strong>/x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu</strong>/url/index.html</code></a>.

This is to ensure that platform-specific links correctly point to the right version of
the online docs; without an explicit target, links will always point to the crate's
default target, where the item may not exist.

In many cases, this should be okay. However, in some situations, this could affect how
the resulting links behave when opened.

When referring to items from your own crates, as long as you [ensure][docs-rs-metadata]
that docs for the corresponding targets are also built on docs.rs, links should be
accessible.

When referring to items from dependencies, it is possible that docs.rs will not have a
version of the docs for the specific package/target combination that you are using.

When this happens, docs.rs will redirect[^docs-rs-default-redirect] such links to the
search interface of the default target of the corresponding crates. For example, the
link: <br>
<code><https://docs.rs/nix/0.31.2/x86_64-pc-windows-msvc/nix/kmod/index.html></code>
should[^docs-rs-issue-3329] redirect to <br>
<code><https://docs.rs/nix/0.31.2/nix/?search=kmod></code>.

If you would like to avoid such redirects, one possible remedy is to always include a
widely-available target, such as `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`[^docs-rs-default-target], as
the first target in the option, which has priority:

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.targets = ["x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu", "aarch64-nintendo-switch-freestanding"]
```

In this example, all items that are available on `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`, _including
items that are not platform-specific,_ will generate URLs containing
`x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`. Items that are only enabled on later targets will use those
targets instead. This should ensure the generated links are accessible without
redirects.

> [!TIP]
>
> Specifying multiple targets this way causes `cargo doc` to compile the same packages
> multiple times, which could slow down the build process. If you would like to avoid
> this, you can combine the [`build.packages`](package-selection.md) option with the
> "multi-stage build" feature. See [below](#multi-stage-builds) for some examples.

## Reusing docs.rs options

docs.rs allows you to customize builds using the
[`[package.metadata.docs.rs]`][docs-rs-metadata] table in your crate's `Cargo.toml`. The
build options that this preprocessor supports are largely modeled after those that
docs.rs supports.

If you would like to reuse your docs.rs configuration rather than duplicating them, you
can use the `build.docs-rs` flag:

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
build.docs-rs = true
```

## Multi-stage builds

Finally, to support even finer customization, the preprocessor is capable of running the
resolution process multiple times, each using different options. This is known as a
"multi-stage build."

The idea behind multi-stage builds is that the preprocessor can generate only a subset
of the links during each stage. As long as all links are resolved at the end of the
build process, the build would be considered successful.

As a rather contrived example, suppose you are using the [`nix`] crate for
platform-specific Linux APIs over a few platforms, and you'd like to refer to them in
your documentation. Suppose your project also uses a number of other platform-agnostic
dependencies. While it is possible to simply add the needed targets to
[`build.targets`](#specifying-targets), that may result in the preprocessor taking a
long time to finish, as it has to unnecessarily rebuild docs for those dependencies.

To enable multi-stage builds, change `[preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]` to an array:

```diff config-example
- [preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]
+ [[preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]]
```

You can then repeat the section multiple times, each with different configurations. For
example:

```toml config-example
[[preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]]
targets = ["x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu"]
packages = [{ workspace = true }]
docs-rs = true

[[preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]]
targets = ["x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu", "x86_64-unknown-freebsd", "aarch64-apple-ios"]
packages = ["nix"]
```

> [!TIP]
>
> <details>
>   <summary>TOML syntax primer</summary>
>
> In previous examples, options were written like:
>
> ```toml config-example
> [preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
> build.features = ["..."]
> ```
>
> The `build.features` syntax implicitly defines a `build` [table][toml-table] under the
> `preprocessor.rustdoc-links` table. This is equivalent to:
>
> ```toml config-example
> [preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
> [preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]
> features = ["..."]
> ```
>
> To enable multi-stage builds, the `build` table becomes an [array of
> tables][toml-array-of-tables] instead:
>
> ```toml config-example
> [preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
>
> [[preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]]
> targets = ["..."]
>
> [[preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]]
> targets = ["..."]
> ```
>
> For more details, feel free to check out the complete [TOML specification][toml-spec]!
>
> </details>

In this example, the preprocessor does 2 rounds of resolution:

1. It first runs `cargo doc` on your local packages using the `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`
   target (inheriting your docs.rs config); this only resolves links that point to your
   1st-party APIs.

2. It then repeats the process a second time, but only for the `nix` package, using 3
   targets, resolving the remaining links that refer to `nix`.

[^rustdoc-conditional]:
    You can learn more about how rustdoc itself handles conditional compilation in the
    [`rustdoc` book][cfg-doc].

[^docs-rs-issue-3329]:
    Currently, a bug has prevented docs.rs from doing so. See [docs.rs issue
    #3329][docs-rs-issue-3329] for more details.

[^docs-rs-default-redirect]:
    Note that docs.rs currently does not support the "opposite" behavior: redirecting
    from the default target to a known item in a more specific target. Therefore,
    including target triples in links was favored over omitting them. See [docs.rs issue
    #3329][docs-rs-issue-3329] for more details.

[^docs-rs-default-target]:
    [Starting on 2026-05-01][docs-rs-default-target], `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` is the
    default target that docs.rs will build docs for if one isn't specified.

[^cargo-dep-feature]: {{#include ../_snippets/cargo-features-quirk.md}}

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[cfg-doc]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/rustdoc/advanced-features.html#cfgdoc-documenting-platform-specific-or-feature-specific-information
[`--features`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/commands/cargo-doc.html#option-cargo-doc---features
[`--all-features`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/commands/cargo-doc.html#option-cargo-doc---all-features
[`--no-default-features`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/commands/cargo-doc.html#option-cargo-doc---no-default-features
[`--target`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/commands/cargo-doc.html#option-cargo-doc---target
[docs-rs-metadata]: https://docs.rs/about/metadata
[docs-rs-issue-3329]: https://github.com/rust-lang/docs.rs/issues/3329
[docs-rs-default-target]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2026/04/04/docsrs-only-default-targets/
[`nix`]: https://docs.rs/nix/
[toml-table]: https://toml.io/en/v1.1.0#table
[toml-array-of-tables]: https://toml.io/en/v1.1.0#array-of-tables
[toml-spec]: https://toml.io/en/v1.1.0
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
