# How to preview `cargo doc` output locally

By default, for any item that is not in [`std`], the preprocessor will generate links
that point to [docs.rs](https://docs.rs). This includes items from your local packages.
During local development, this behavior may be inconvenient:

- Your package may not have been published yet, in which case such links leads to a 404
  page.
- If you are simultaneously working on API docs, pages on docs.rs will not reflect your
  local modifications.

For such reasons, the preprocessor provides a `base-url` option to support locally
previewing docs produced by `cargo doc` .

## Using `base-url.dev`

You can specify `base-url.dev`, and supply an absolute path, for example:

```toml config-example
[preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
base-url.dev = "/api"
```

With this option, the preprocessor does the following:

- Instead of generating links that point to docs.rs, it generates links in the form of
  <br> `/<base-url.dev>/<crate-name>/<item>`[^relpath]:

  | Configuration                | Generated link                                                  |
  | ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | (default)                    | `https://docs.rs/url/2.5.8/url/struct.Url.html`                 |
  | `base-url.dev = "/api"`      | <code><strong>/api</strong>/url/struct.Url.html</code><br>      |
  | `base-url.dev = "/api/rust"` | <code><strong>/api/rust</strong>/url/struct.Url.html</code><br> |

- It creates a symlink[^symlink-windows] at the specified path _under your book's `src`
  directory_ (for example, `/path/to/book/src/api`) that points to the `target/doc`,
  where `cargo doc` places its output.
  - When this symlink exists, `mdbook` will recursively copy everything under it to your
    book's build output.

As a result:

- **Your book's output directory will now contain files generated by `cargo doc`.**

- When you use `mdbook serve` to preview docs, the local server will also serve your API
  docs under the specified path.

- Opening an intra-doc link will bring you to the local page instead of to docs.rs.

  For example, with the above configuration, documentation for [`url::Url`] will be
  available at `http://localhost:3000/api/url/struct.Url.html`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> If you specify `base-url` instead of <code>base-url<strong>.dev</strong></code>, then
> the option **will take effect in CI/CD environments as well.** If you are deploying
> your book online, such as by using GitHub Pages, **links in the published book will
> still point to your own site instead of to `docs.rs`,** which may not be what you
> wanted.
>
> If you indeed want to deploy API docs alongside your book, please see
> [Self-hosting API docs](self-hosting-cargo-docs.md) for additional notes.

> [!TIP]
>
> - It is OK to add the auto-generated symlink to `.gitignore`.
> - You can add the path to your crate's `src` directory to mdBook's
>   [`build.extra-watch-dirs` option](http://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/format/configuration/general.html?highlight=extra-watch-dirs#build-options),
>   in which case `mdbook serve` will refresh when your update your source code, which
>   will also rebuild your API docs.

## Caveats

- Because mdBook has to copy all of `cargo doc`'s output to your book's output
  directory, configuring the preprocessor to run `cargo doc` on a
  [large amount of packages](package-selection.md) could introduce a noticeable delay
  every time `mdbook serve` rebuilds your book.

[^relpath]:
    Technically, the preprocessor generates _relative paths_ from each book page to the
    expected doc location, so that links work correctly even if you use mdBook's
    `site-url` option, but the outcome is the same.

[^symlink-windows]:
    On Windows, symlink creation requires you to either [enable Developer Mode] or run
    the program with [elevated privileges]. The preprocessor will fall back to creating
    an [NTFS junction] if it fails to create a symlink, in which case you should add the
    resulting directory to `.gitignore`.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[enable Developer Mode]: https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2016/12/02/symlinks-windows-10/
[elevated privileges]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/os/windows/fs/fn.symlink_dir.html#limitations
[NTFS junction]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/FileIO/hard-links-and-junctions#junctions
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
