# How to deploy API docs alongside your book

By default, the preprocessor assumes that you want to publish your docs to
[docs.rs](https://docs.rs), and generates links accordingly.

The [local development guide](local-development.md) introduces the `build.base-url.dev`
option. Among other effects, this option causes mdBook to copy files generated by
`cargo doc` to your book's output directory.

In other words, running `mdbook build` will produce a standalone output that contains
both your book and your API docs. You can then deploy the rendered files as a static
site.

The `.dev` in the option indicates that this only takes effect during local development
but not in CI/CD environments, such as GitHub Pages. If you are certain that you want to
self-host your API docs, then you can write `base-url` instead of `base-url.dev`:

```diff config-example
  [preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
  unstable-features = true
- base-url.dev = "/api"
+ base-url = "/api"
```

With this, the option will now take effect even in CI environments.

{% with feature = "`base-url`" %}
{% include "/docs/src/_snippets/unstable-features.md" %} {% endwith %}

## Caveats

> [!WARNING]

Because the preprocessor only runs `cargo doc` on
[selected packages](package-selection.md), it is possible for intra-doc links _in API
docs_ to be broken, if the expected package isn't included in the selection.

For example, if you have a doc comment that says:

```rust
//! Extension traits for [`tracing_subscriber`].
```

But the [`tracing_subscriber`] crate isn't selected by your configuration, then the
resulting API doc could[^html_root_url] contain a broken link.

**This will affect both your local packages and any dependency that you choose to
generate docs for.** This will not affect links in your book (any link that failed to
resolve will at least result in a warning lint).

To remedy this, you can:

- Ensure that the `build.packages` contains all packages that are referred to in API
  docs. Because this problem recursively affects to transitive dependencies, doing so
  may not be possible.

- Use [`build.packages = "unspecified"`](package-selection.md#documenting-everything),
  which causes `cargo doc` to document all your dependencies. This may have
  [performance implication](local-development.md#caveats) if your project depends on a
  large number of packages.

- If you have the option to use a nightly toolchain, configure your `book.toml` to have
  the following:

  ```toml config-example
  [preprocessor.rustdoc-links]
  unstable-features = true
  base-url = "/api"

  [preprocessor.rustdoc-links.build]
  toolchain = "nightly"
  cargo-args = [
    "-Z=rustdoc-map",
    "--config",
    "doc.extern-map.registries.crates-io='https://docs.rs/'",
  ]
  ```

  This enables the [unstable `rustdoc-map` feature][rustdoc-map]. This feature causes
  `cargo doc` to automatically fallback to using docs.rs for any item that it didn't
  document (which is [how docs.rs itself does it when building
  docs][rustdoc-map-docs-rs]).

  With this setup, you can configure `build.packages` to exactly the packages that you
  wish to self-host, and links to any packages not covered should properly point to
  docs.rs.

[^html_root_url]:
    It is also possible for the link to still work, depending on whether the destination
    crate enables [specific options][html_root_url] in its source code.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[rustdoc-map]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/unstable.html#rustdoc-map
[html_root_url]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/rustdoc/write-documentation/the-doc-attribute.html#html_root_url
[rustdoc-map-docs-rs]: https://github.com/rust-lang/docs.rs/blob/8afdce7bf673199a901e3b50da57c94983a95b9e/crates/lib/metadata/lib.rs#L271-L273
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
